
# Rails 3.1 Template

This is a template for new Rails projects. It incorporates files from these
projects to provide a solid basis for a new site.

 * [Rails 3.1.0.rc5](https://rubygems.org/gems/rails/versions/3.1.0.rc5);
 * [HTML5 Boilerplate](http://html5boilerplate.com/) (downloaded Aug. 5, 2011);
 * [960.gs](http://960.gs/) (also downloaded Aug. 5, 2011); and
 * a few gems (see below).

## Getting Started

Using this is as easy as 1-2-3.

*First*: Clone this project from GitHub into a new directory:

```bash
$ git clone git://github.com/scholarslab/rails31-template.git my-cool-project
```

*Second*: Run a `rake` task to rename the classes in the project:

```bash
$ rake template:name name=MyCoolProject
```

*Third*: Umm. That's it really. Create your cool project, I guess.

## The Boilerplate

The main HTML file is incorporated into
`app/views/layouts/application.html.erb`.

## Images

The `favicon.ico` and PNG files for mobile devices are all in `public/`.

## Stylesheets

The stylesheets from HTML5 Boilerplate and 960.gs are all in
`app/assets/stylesheets`. Each file there has a numeric prefix to control the
order they're loaded in. They're also named so you can see where the file came
from:

```bash
$ ls app/assets/stylesheets/ -1
000-html5-reset.css
010-960-text.css
011-960.css
555-style.css
999-html5-media-fixes.css
application.css
```

Of course, because of the asset pipeline, these are all concatenated into one
big file.

## JavaScript

I opted not to use the jQuery provided with HTML5 Boilerplate, so Rails takes
care of that.

The other JavaScript bundled with HTML5 Boilerplate is in a couple of different
places:

 * **modernizr** and **dd_belatedpng** are in `public/` because we have to
   control how they're loaded (Modernizr is loaded in the header, and
   dd_belatedpng is only loaded for IE).
 * **plugins.js** and **script.js** are in `app/assets/javascripts`. You can
   use `script.js` to include your own JavaScript. Except for an empty closure
   and function call, it's currently empty.

Also, except for Modernizr, the JavaScript all gets loaded at the bottom of the
page, following HTML5 Boilerplate's practice.

